[sensors][android] Add Light Sensor (#18177)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/light-sensor.md

---
title: LightSensor

> sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-46/packages/expo-sensors'

Reviewer: There should be `main` in `unversioned`
```suggestion
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-sensors'
```

packageName: 'expo-sensors'
---

import {APIInstallSection} from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';
import SnackInline from '~/components/plugins/SnackInline';

import { InlineCode } from '~/components/base/code';

> `LightSensor` from **`expo-sensors`** provides access to the device light sensor to respond to changes in luminosity. `luminositt` is measured in _`Lux`_ or _`lx`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`LightSensor` from **`expo-sensors`** provides access to the device light sensor to respond to changes in luminosity. `luminosity` is measured in _`Lux`_ or _`lx`_.
```

So is it `luminosity` or `illuminance`?

      </View>
    </View>
  );
}

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  buttonContainer: {
    flexDirection: 'row',
    alignItems: 'stretch',
    marginTop: 15,
  },
  button: {
    flex: 1,
    justifyContent: 'center',
    alignItems: 'center',
    backgroundColor: '#eee',
    padding: 10,
  },
  sensor: {
    marginTop: 45,
    paddingHorizontal: 10,
  },
});
/* @end */
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import { LightSensor } from 'expo-sensors';
```

## Methods

### `LightSensor.isAvailableAsync()`

> You should always check the sensor availability before attempting to use it.

Returns a promise which resolves into a boolean denoting the availability of the device light sensor.

| OS      | Availability                |
| ------- | --------------------------- |
| iOS     | `N/A`                       |
| Android | Android 2.3+ (API Level 9+) |
| Web     | `N/A`                       |

#### Returns

- A promise that resolves to a `boolean` denoting the availability of the sensor.

### `LightSensor.addListener((data: LightSensorMeasurement) => void)`

Subscribe for updates to the light sensor.

```js

> const subscription = LightSensor.addListener((luminosity) => {
>   console.log(luminosity.illuminance);
> });

Reviewer: `luminosity.illuminance` sounds odd. Maybe call it just `sensorData`:
```suggestion
const subscription = LightSensor.addListener((sensorData) => {
  console.log(sensorData.illuminance);
});
```

```

#### Arguments

- **listener (_function_)** -- A callback that is invoked when a LightSensor update is available. When invoked, the listener is provided a single argument that is the luminosity value.

#### Returns

- A subscription that you can call `remove()` on when you would like to unsubscribe the listener.

### `LightSensor.removeAllListeners()`

Removes all listeners.

## Types

### `LightSensorMeasurement`

```typescript
type LightSensorMeasurement = {
  luminosity: number;

> };

Reviewer: This type isn't up-to-date, right?
Please decide if you want to use `luminosity` or `illuminance`.

      setLuminusity(lightSensorData);
    });
  };

  const _unsubscribe = () => {
    this._subscription && this._subscription.remove();
    this._subscription = null;
  };

  return (
    <View style={styles.sensor}>
      <Text>Light Sensor:</Text>
      <Text>Luminosity: {Platform.OS === 'android' ? `${luminosity} lx` : `Only available on Android`}</Text>
      <View style={styles.buttonContainer}>
        <TouchableOpacity onPress={_toggle} style={styles.button}>
          <Text>Toggle</Text>
        </TouchableOpacity>
      </View>
    </View>
  );
}

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  buttonContainer: {
    flexDirection: 'row',
    alignItems: 'stretch',
    marginTop: 15,
  },
  button: {
    flex: 1,
    justifyContent: 'center',
    alignItems: 'center',
    backgroundColor: '#eee',
    padding: 10,
  },
  sensor: {
    marginTop: 45,
    paddingHorizontal: 10,
  },
});
/* @end */
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js
import { LightSensor } from 'expo-sensors';
```

## Methods

### `LightSensor.isAvailableAsync()`

> You should always check the sensor availability before attempting to use it.

> Returns a promise which resolves into a boolean denoting the availability of the device LightSensor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a promise which resolves into a boolean denoting the availability of the device light sensor.
```

| OS      | Availability                |
| ------- | --------------------------- |
| iOS     | `N/A`                       |
| Android | Android 2.3+ (API Level 9+) |
| Web     | `N/A`                       |

#### Returns

- A promise that resolves to a `boolean` denoting the availability of the sensor.

### `LightSensor.addListener((data: LightSensorMeasurement) => void)`

> Subscribe for updates to the LightSensor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subscribe for updates to the light sensor.
```

---
title: LightSensor
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-sensors'

> packageName: 'expo-sensors'

Reviewer: Please do replace all the occurrences of `Barometer` with `Light Sensor` and update the descriptions accordingly. I marked only a few of them, but there are more.

Author: I have now!

    if (this._subscription) {
      _unsubscribe();
    } else {
      _subscribe();
    }
  };

  const _subscribe = () => {
    this._subscription = LightSensor.addListener(lightSensorData => {
      setLuminusity(lightSensorData);
    });
  };

  const _unsubscribe = () => {
    this._subscription && this._subscription.remove();
    this._subscription = null;
  };

  return (
    <View style={styles.sensor}>
      <Text>Light Sensor:</Text>
      <Text>Luminosity: {Platform.OS === 'android' ? `${luminosity} lx` : `Only available on Android`}</Text>
      <View style={styles.buttonContainer}>
        <TouchableOpacity onPress={_toggle} style={styles.button}>
          <Text>Toggle</Text>
        </TouchableOpacity>
      </View>
    </View>
  );
}

/* @hide const styles = StyleSheet.create({ ... }); */
const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  buttonContainer: {
    flexDirection: 'row',
    alignItems: 'stretch',
    marginTop: 15,
  },
  button: {
    flex: 1,
    justifyContent: 'center',
    alignItems: 'center',
    backgroundColor: '#eee',
    padding: 10,
  },
  sensor: {
    marginTop: 45,
    paddingHorizontal: 10,
  },
});
/* @end */
```

</SnackInline>

## API

```js

> import { Barometer } from 'expo-sensors';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { LightSensor } from 'expo-sensors';
```

```

## Methods

> ### `Barometer.isAvailableAsync()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `LightSensor.isAvailableAsync()`
```

> You should always check the sensor availability before attempting to use it.

> Returns a promise which resolves into a boolean denoting the availability of the device barometer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a promise which resolves into a boolean denoting the availability of the device light sensor.
```

| OS      | Availability                |
| ------- | --------------------------- |
| iOS     | iOS 8+                      |
| Android | Android 2.3+ (API Level 9+) |
| Web     | `N/A`                       |

#### Returns

- A promise that resolves to a `boolean` denoting the availability of the sensor.

### `Barometer.addListener((data: BarometerMeasurement) => void)`

Subscribe for updates to the barometer.

```js
const subscription = Barometer.addListener(({ pressure, relativeAltitude }) => {
  console.log({ pressure, relativeAltitude });
});
```

#### Arguments

> - **listener (_function_)** -- A callback that is invoked when an barometer update is available. When invoked, the listener is provided a single argument that is an object containing: `pressure: number` (_`hPa`_). On **iOS** the `relativeAltitude: number` (_`meters`_) value will also be available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **listener (_function_)** -- A callback that is invoked when a light sensor update is available. When invoked, the listener is provided a single argument that is an object containing: `luminosity: number` (_`lx`_).
```
